# Polymon

Seek out Polymer team members and capture them as Polymon!

## Bootstrap development environment

Polymon is a PWA, so most of the code runs in a browser. But, Polymon also uses Firebase for some business logic, persistance and web hosting.

### Installing
First, ensure that you have the latest Node.js and NPM installed.
Also, ensure the firebase CLI is available globally:

```sh
npm install -g firebase-tools
```

Next, from your project root, install Node.js dependencies:

```sh
npm install
```

### Creating Aliases
Next, you will need at least one Firebase project to deploy to. If you don't
already have one to target, go create one in the Firebase web control panel.

By default, the `.firebaserc` is configured for the official Polymon
deployment environments. If you are creating a your own Firebase project to
deploy to, you will need to update the `.firebaserc` file to reflect your
**project's ID**. For example, if your dev project's ID is `polymon-foo` and your
production project's ID is `polymon-prod`, your `.firebaserc` should look something like:

```json
{
  "projects": {
    "prod": "polymon-prod",
    "dev": "polymon-foo"
  }
}
```

Once you have access to the Firebase project(s), you will need to create two
files for each project you want to work with:

 1. A JSON file that contains your Firebase project's configuration.
 2. A JSON file that contains Service Account credentials that have owner
    access to the Firebase project.

These files should be named based on the alias that corresponds to each
Firebase project in `.firebaserc`. So, for a project with alias `dev` (as in
the example `.firebaserc` above), the files should be named:

 1. `.dev.env.json`
 2. `.dev.service-account.json`

The `.dev.env.json` file should describe a Firebase configuration, and
optionally a Google Analytics configuration; if you're copying these values from
firebase, ensure the keys match:

```json
{
  "firebase": {
    "projectId": "polymon",
    "apiKey": "AIzaSyDBzqU7s3b6hVu309lbYQABJr2xmioiIV0",
    "authDomain": "polymon-foo.firebaseapp.com",
    "databaseURL": "https://polymon-foo.firebaseio.com",
    "storageBucket": "polymon-foo.appspot.com",
    "messagingSenderId": "447537573236"
  },

  "googleAnalytics": {
    "trackingId": "OPTIONAL_TRACKING_ID_HERE"
  }
}
```

If you don't know how to generate a Service Account credential file, please
consult the documentation [here][1].

### Quickstart
Assuming you have a `.dev.env.json` and a `.dev.service-account.json` from the previous step, you can quickly build, generate data, deploy, and serve using the following command:'

```sh
gulp
```

If you want to customize your environment, follow the next sections.

### Generating Seed Data

Once you have completed the [above steps](#creating-aliases), and this is your first time building this project, then you must now generate seed data:

```sh
gulp gen-data:dev

# alternatively you can generate data for your prod environment with
gulp prod gen-data:prod

# you can also generate data for arbitrary .firebaserc alias (defaults to dev):
gulp generate-data --env myFirebasercAlias
```

### Deploying
Assuming you have already [generated the seed data](#generating-seed-data) for the proper environment, you can deploy:

```sh
# deploys to dev
gulp deploy:all:dev

# deploys to prod
gulp deploy:all:prod

# deploys to arbitrary .firebaserc alias (defaults to dev):
gulp deploy:all --env myFirebasercAlias
```

Alternatively, you can deploy the uncompiled source:

```sh
# deploys to dev
gulp deploy:all:dev:source

# deploys to prod
gulp deploy:all:prod:source

# deploys to arbitrary .firebaserc alias (defaults to dev):
gulp deploy:all:source --env myFirebasercAlias
```

### Rebuilding
If you want to do a rebuild without deploying you can simply just run:

```sh
# clean rebuild (env defaults to dev alias)
gulp clean build:dev

# dirty rebuild (env defaults to dev alias)
gulp build:dev

# alternatively you can build for different environments:
# prod
gulp build:prod

# arbirary (defaults to dev)
gulp build --env myFirebasercAlias
```

### Serving
Assuming everything worked, you should be ready to hack on Polymon. Use the following command to serve:

```sh
# serves uncompiled source
gulp serve

# serves compiled source
gulp serve:compiled
```

And then open up a browser to [http://localhost:5000][2] and check it out!

**Note:** *The `firebase.json` file is generated by the build tool. Edit `firebaseConfig.json instead*

### Backend Reminders:
Finally, remember to:
- enable the Google sign-in method in the [Firebase Console][3]
(Authentication -> sign-in method -> Google -> Enable)
- enable the Google Maps Javascript API in the [Google Cloud API Console][4]
(Library -> Google Maps Javascript API -> Enable)

[1]: https://firebase.google.com/docs/server/setup#add_firebase_to_your_app
[2]: http://localhost:5000
[3]: https://console.firebase.google.com/
[4]: https://console.developers.google.com/
